== SQL_Demo

SQL Demo is for SQL preparation for interviews

== Notes for SQL Demo

1. create database sql_demo;

2. SQL select can use =, LIKE/%, >, <, and <>, for matching columns.

3. Data types in MySQL are integer, varchar(x), char(x), number(size), 
   number(size,d)/decimal, date

4. Constraints: not null, unique, primary key

5. Strings in single quotes, numbers not

6. The create directory creates (empinfo, customers, and items_ordered).

7. The insert directory inserts records into (empinfo, customers and
   items_ordered).

8. Syntax note: update set ... where ... [and]

9. Syntax note: delete from where...

10. Syntax note: drop table x;

11. Syntax note: select [all | distinct] columns from tables [where] [group by] [having] [order by] [asc desc]

12. Syntax note: in (), between-and-, with nots, can be used in select. 
    Note that we could use in () to compose composite queries.

13. aggregate functions: 
     min - smallest value in given column
     max - largest value in given column
     sum - sum of values in given column
     avg - average values in given column
     count - number of values in given column
     count(*) - number of rows in a table
    These can be used without group by, but are required by it

14. The directory "select_no_join" introduces various SELECT constructions,
    without aggregation, without joins, and without group by.

15. The directory "select_agggregate_no_group_by" introduces SELECT 
    constructions, with aggregation, without joins, and without group by.

16. sorting (order by) is asc by default

17. The directory "order_by" introduces sorting the results using "order_by".

18. The directory "group_by" introduces querying using "group by".

19. Syntax note: abs(x), sign(x), mod(x,y), floor(x), ceiling(x), 
    power(x,y), round(x), round(x,d), sqrt(x)

20. The directory "math" is for using the math functions listed in the
    previous step.

21. The directory "having" is for "group_by" with constraints.

22. The directory "join" introduces inner join/equijoin, and left join,
    and right join.
